book/getting-started/run-a-wallaroo-application-docker.md, before:

# Run a Wallaroo Application in Docker

In this section, we're going to run an example Wallaroo application in Docker. By the time you are finished, you'll have validated that your Docker environment is set up and working correctly. If you haven't already completed the Docker setup [instructions](book/getting-started/docker-setup.md), please do so before continuing.

There's a couple Wallaroo support applications that you'll be interacting with for the first time:

- Our Metrics UI that allows you to monitor the performance and health of your applications.
- Giles receiver is designed to capture TCP output from Wallaroo applications.
- Giles sender is used to send test data into Wallaroo applications over TCP.
- Machida, our program for running Wallaroo Python applications.

You're going to set up our "Celsius to Fahrenheit" example application. Giles sender will be used to pump data into the application. Giles receiver will receive the output and our Metrics UI will be running so you can observe the overall performance.

The Metrics UI process will be run in the background. The other three processes (receiver, sender, and Wallaroo) will run in the foreground. We recommend that you run each process in a separate terminal.

NOTE: If you haven't set up Docker to run without root, you will need to use `sudo` with your Docker commands.

Let's get started!

## Terminal 1, Start the Wallaroo Docker container

```bash
docker run --rm -it --privileged -p 4000:4000 \
-v /tmp/wallaroo-docker/wallaroo-src:/src/wallaroo \
-v /tmp/wallaroo-docker/python-virtualenv:/src/python-virtualenv \
--name wally \
wallaroo-labs-docker-wallaroolabs.bintray.io/release/wallaroo:0.3.0
```

### Breaking down the Docker command

- `docker run`: The Docker command to start a new container.

- `--rm`: Automatically clean up the container and remove the file system on exit.

- `-it`: Allows us to work with interactive processes by allocating a tty for the container.

- `--privileged`: Gives the container access to the hosts' devices. This allows certain system calls to be used by Wallaroo, specifically `mbind` and `set_mempolicy`. This setting is optional, but by excluding it there will be a performance degradation in Wallaroo's processing capabilities.

- `-p 4000:4000`: Maps the default port for HTTP requests for the Metrics UI from the container to the host. This makes it possible to call up the Metrics UI from a browser on the host.

- `-v /tmp/wallaroo-docker/wallaroo-src:/src/wallaroo`: Mounts a host directory as a data volume within the container. The first time you run this, you must use an empty directory in order for the Docker image to copy the Wallaroo source code to your host. This allows you to open and modify the Wallaroo source code with the editor of your choice on your host. The Wallaroo source code will persist on your machine after the container is stopped or deleted. This setting is optional, but without it you would need to use an editor within the container to view or modify the Wallaroo source code.

- `-v /tmp/wallaroo-docker/python-virtualenv:/src/python-virtualenv`: Mounts a host directory as a data volume within the container. The first time this is run for the provided directory, this command will setup a persistent Python virtual environment using [virtualenv](https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/stable/) for the container on your host. Thus, if you need to install any python modules using `pip` or `easy_install` they will persist after the container is stopped or deleted. This setting is optional, but without it, you will not have a persistent `virtualenv` for the container.

- `--name wally`: The name for the container. This setting is optional but makes it easier to reference the container in later commands.

## Terminal 2, Start the Metrics UI

Enter the Wallaroo Docker container:

```bash
docker exec -it wally environment-setup.sh
```

This command will start a new Bash shell within the container, which will run the `environment-setup.sh` script to ensure our persistent Python `virtualenv` is set up.

To start the Metrics UI run:

```bash
metrics_reporter_ui start
```

You can verify it started up correctly by visiting [http://localhost:4000](http://localhost:4000).

If you need to restart the UI, run:

```bash
metrics_reporter_ui restart
```

When it's time to stop the UI, run:

```bash
metrics_reporter_ui stop
```

If you need to start the UI after stopping it, run:

```bash
metrics_reporter_ui start
```

## Terminal 3, Run Giles Receiver

Enter the Wallaroo Docker container:

```bash
docker exec -it wally environment-setup.sh
```

We'll use Giles Receiver to listen for data from our Wallaroo application.

```bash
receiver --listen 127.0.0.1:5555 --no-write --ponythreads=1 --ponynoblock
```

You should see the line `Listening for data` that indicates that Giles receiver is running.

## Terminal 4, Run the "Celsius to Fahrenheit" Application

Enter the Wallaroo Docker container:

```bash
docker exec -it wally environment-setup.sh
```

First, we'll need to get to the python Celsius example directory with the following command:

```bash
cd /src/wallaroo/examples/python/celsius
```

Now that we are in the proper directory, and the Metrics UI and a data receiver are up and running, we can run the application itself by executing the following command:

```bash
machida --application-module celsius --in 127.0.0.1:7000 \
  --out 127.0.0.1:5555 --metrics 127.0.0.1:5001 --control 127.0.0.1:6000 \
  --data 127.0.0.1:6001 --name worker-name --external 127.0.0.1:5050 \
  --cluster-initializer --ponythreads=1 --ponynoblock
```

This tells the "Celsius to Fahrenheit" application that it should listen on port `7000` for incoming data, write outgoing data to port `5555`, and send metrics data to port `5001`.

## Terminal 5, Sending Data

Enter the Wallaroo Docker container:

```bash
docker exec -it wally environment-setup.sh
```

We will be sending in 25,000,000 messages using a pre-generated data file. The data file will be repeatedly sent via Giles Sender until we reach 25,000,000 messages.

You will now be able to start the `sender` with the following command:

```bash
sender --host 127.0.0.1:7000 --messages 25000000 --binary \
--batch-size 50 --interval 10_000_000 --repeat --no-write \
--msg-size 8 --ponythreads=1 --ponynoblock \
  --file /src/wallaroo/examples/python/celsius/celsius.msg
```

If the sender is working correctly, you should see `Connected` printed to the screen. If you see that, you can be assured that we are now sending data into our example application.

## Check Out Some Metrics

### First Look

Once the sender has successfully connected, if you [visit the Metrics UI](http://localhost:4000) the landing page should show you that the "Celsius to Fahrenheit" application has successfully connected.

![Landing Page](/book/metrics/images/landing-page.png)

If your landing page resembles the one above, the "Celsius to Fahrenheit" application has successfully connected to the Metrics UI.

Now, let's have a look at some metrics. By clicking on the "Celsius to Fahrenheit" link, you'll be taken to the "Application Dashboard" page. On this page you should see metric stats for the following:

- a single pipeline: `Celsius Conversion`
- a single worker: `Initializer`
- three computations: `Add32`, `Decode Time in TCP Source`, `Multiply by 1.8`

![Application Dashboard Page](/book/metrics/images/application-dashboard-page.png)

You'll see the metric stats update as data continues to be processed in our application.

You can then click into one of the elements within a category, to get to a detailed metrics page for that element. If we were to click into the `Add32` computation, we'll be taken to this page:

![Computation Detailed Metrics page](/book/metrics/images/computation-detailed-metrics-page.png)

Feel free to click around and get a feel for how the Metrics UI is setup and how it is used to monitor a running Wallaroo application. If you'd like a deeper dive into the Metrics UI, have a look at our [Monitoring Metrics with the Monitoring Hub](/book/metrics/metrics-ui.md) section.

## Shutdown

### Terminal 6, Cluster Shutdown

Enter the Wallaroo Docker container:

```bash
docker exec -it wally environment-setup.sh
```

You can shut down the cluster with this command once processing has finished:

```bash
cluster_shutdown 127.0.0.1:5050
```

You can shut down Giles Sender and Giles Receiver by pressing Ctrl-c from their respective shells.

You can shut down the Metrics UI with the following command:

```bash
metrics_reporter_ui stop
```

### Wallaroo Container

To shut down the Wallaroo container, use the `docker stop` command in a shell on your host:

```bash
docker stop wally
```

This command will also terminate any active sessions you may have left open to the docker container.

For tips on editing existing Wallaroo example code or installing Python modules within Docker, have a look at our [Tips for using Wallaroo in Docker](/book/appendix/wallaroo-in-docker-tips.md) section.

Commit message:

Update mounting Wallaroo source directory wording in Docker docs (#1842)
Remove the use of alarming "must". Add comment about assuming the directory
is prepopulated with Wallaroo code if mounted and not empty.

[skip ci]

closes #1821

book/getting-started/run-a-wallaroo-application-docker.md, after:

# Run a Wallaroo Application in Docker

In this section, we're going to run an example Wallaroo application in Docker. By the time you are finished, you'll have validated that your Docker environment is set up and working correctly. If you haven't already completed the Docker setup [instructions](book/getting-started/docker-setup.md), please do so before continuing.

There's a couple Wallaroo support applications that you'll be interacting with for the first time:

- Our Metrics UI that allows you to monitor the performance and health of your applications.
- Giles receiver is designed to capture TCP output from Wallaroo applications.
- Giles sender is used to send test data into Wallaroo applications over TCP.
- Machida, our program for running Wallaroo Python applications.

You're going to set up our "Celsius to Fahrenheit" example application. Giles sender will be used to pump data into the application. Giles receiver will receive the output and our Metrics UI will be running so you can observe the overall performance.

The Metrics UI process will be run in the background. The other three processes (receiver, sender, and Wallaroo) will run in the foreground. We recommend that you run each process in a separate terminal.

NOTE: If you haven't set up Docker to run without root, you will need to use `sudo` with your Docker commands.

Let's get started!

## Terminal 1, Start the Wallaroo Docker container

```bash
docker run --rm -it --privileged -p 4000:4000 \
-v /tmp/wallaroo-docker/wallaroo-src:/src/wallaroo \
-v /tmp/wallaroo-docker/python-virtualenv:/src/python-virtualenv \
--name wally \
wallaroo-labs-docker-wallaroolabs.bintray.io/release/wallaroo:0.3.0
```

### Breaking down the Docker command

- `docker run`: The Docker command to start a new container.

- `--rm`: Automatically clean up the container and remove the file system on exit.

- `-it`: Allows us to work with interactive processes by allocating a tty for the container.

- `--privileged`: Gives the container access to the hosts' devices. This allows certain system calls to be used by Wallaroo, specifically `mbind` and `set_mempolicy`. This setting is optional, but by excluding it there will be a performance degradation in Wallaroo's processing capabilities.

- `-p 4000:4000`: Maps the default port for HTTP requests for the Metrics UI from the container to the host. This makes it possible to call up the Metrics UI from a browser on the host.

- `-v /tmp/wallaroo-docker/wallaroo-src:/src/wallaroo`: Mounts a host directory as a data volume within the container. The first time you run this, an empty directory needs to be used in order for the Docker container to copy the Wallaroo source code to your host. If an empty directory is not used, we are assuming it is prepopulated with the Wallaroo source code from this point forward. This allows you to open and modify the Wallaroo source code with the editor of your choice on your host. The Wallaroo source code will persist on your machine after the container is stopped or deleted. This setting is optional, but without it you would need to use an editor within the container to view or modify the Wallaroo source code.

- `-v /tmp/wallaroo-docker/python-virtualenv:/src/python-virtualenv`: Mounts a host directory as a data volume within the container. The first time this is run for the provided directory, this command will setup a persistent Python virtual environment using [virtualenv](https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/stable/) for the container on your host. Thus, if you need to install any python modules using `pip` or `easy_install` they will persist after the container is stopped or deleted. This setting is optional, but without it, you will not have a persistent `virtualenv` for the container.

- `--name wally`: The name for the container. This setting is optional but makes it easier to reference the container in later commands.

## Terminal 2, Start the Metrics UI

Enter the Wallaroo Docker container:

```bash
docker exec -it wally environment-setup.sh
```

This command will start a new Bash shell within the container, which will run the `environment-setup.sh` script to ensure our persistent Python `virtualenv` is set up.

To start the Metrics UI run:

```bash
metrics_reporter_ui start
```

You can verify it started up correctly by visiting [http://localhost:4000](http://localhost:4000).

If you need to restart the UI, run:

```bash
metrics_reporter_ui restart
```

When it's time to stop the UI, run:

```bash
metrics_reporter_ui stop
```

If you need to start the UI after stopping it, run:

```bash
metrics_reporter_ui start
```

## Terminal 3, Run Giles Receiver

Enter the Wallaroo Docker container:

```bash
docker exec -it wally environment-setup.sh
```

We'll use Giles Receiver to listen for data from our Wallaroo application.

```bash
receiver --listen 127.0.0.1:5555 --no-write --ponythreads=1 --ponynoblock
```

You should see the line `Listening for data` that indicates that Giles receiver is running.

## Terminal 4, Run the "Celsius to Fahrenheit" Application

Enter the Wallaroo Docker container:

```bash
docker exec -it wally environment-setup.sh
```

First, we'll need to get to the python Celsius example directory with the following command:

```bash
cd /src/wallaroo/examples/python/celsius
```

Now that we are in the proper directory, and the Metrics UI and a data receiver are up and running, we can run the application itself by executing the following command:

```bash
machida --application-module celsius --in 127.0.0.1:7000 \
  --out 127.0.0.1:5555 --metrics 127.0.0.1:5001 --control 127.0.0.1:6000 \
  --data 127.0.0.1:6001 --name worker-name --external 127.0.0.1:5050 \
  --cluster-initializer --ponythreads=1 --ponynoblock
```

This tells the "Celsius to Fahrenheit" application that it should listen on port `7000` for incoming data, write outgoing data to port `5555`, and send metrics data to port `5001`.

## Terminal 5, Sending Data

Enter the Wallaroo Docker container:

```bash
docker exec -it wally environment-setup.sh
```

We will be sending in 25,000,000 messages using a pre-generated data file. The data file will be repeatedly sent via Giles Sender until we reach 25,000,000 messages.

You will now be able to start the `sender` with the following command:

```bash
sender --host 127.0.0.1:7000 --messages 25000000 --binary \
--batch-size 50 --interval 10_000_000 --repeat --no-write \
--msg-size 8 --ponythreads=1 --ponynoblock \
  --file /src/wallaroo/examples/python/celsius/celsius.msg
```

If the sender is working correctly, you should see `Connected` printed to the screen. If you see that, you can be assured that we are now sending data into our example application.

## Check Out Some Metrics

### First Look

Once the sender has successfully connected, if you [visit the Metrics UI](http://localhost:4000) the landing page should show you that the "Celsius to Fahrenheit" application has successfully connected.

![Landing Page](/book/metrics/images/landing-page.png)

If your landing page resembles the one above, the "Celsius to Fahrenheit" application has successfully connected to the Metrics UI.

Now, let's have a look at some metrics. By clicking on the "Celsius to Fahrenheit" link, you'll be taken to the "Application Dashboard" page. On this page you should see metric stats for the following:

- a single pipeline: `Celsius Conversion`
- a single worker: `Initializer`
- three computations: `Add32`, `Decode Time in TCP Source`, `Multiply by 1.8`

![Application Dashboard Page](/book/metrics/images/application-dashboard-page.png)

You'll see the metric stats update as data continues to be processed in our application.

You can then click into one of the elements within a category, to get to a detailed metrics page for that element. If we were to click into the `Add32` computation, we'll be taken to this page:

![Computation Detailed Metrics page](/book/metrics/images/computation-detailed-metrics-page.png)

Feel free to click around and get a feel for how the Metrics UI is setup and how it is used to monitor a running Wallaroo application. If you'd like a deeper dive into the Metrics UI, have a look at our [Monitoring Metrics with the Monitoring Hub](/book/metrics/metrics-ui.md) section.

## Shutdown

### Terminal 6, Cluster Shutdown

Enter the Wallaroo Docker container:

```bash
docker exec -it wally environment-setup.sh
```

You can shut down the cluster with this command once processing has finished:

```bash
cluster_shutdown 127.0.0.1:5050
```

You can shut down Giles Sender and Giles Receiver by pressing Ctrl-c from their respective shells.

You can shut down the Metrics UI with the following command:

```bash
metrics_reporter_ui stop
```

### Wallaroo Container

To shut down the Wallaroo container, use the `docker stop` command in a shell on your host:

```bash
docker stop wally
```

This command will also terminate any active sessions you may have left open to the docker container.

For tips on editing existing Wallaroo example code or installing Python modules within Docker, have a look at our [Tips for using Wallaroo in Docker](/book/appendix/wallaroo-in-docker-tips.md) section.
