examples/go/word_count/README.md, before:

# Word Count

This is an example application that receives strings of text, splits it into individual words and counts the occurrences of each word.

### Input

The inputs of the "Word Count" application are strings encoded in the [source message framing protocol](/book/core-concepts/decoders-and-encoders.md#framed-message-protocols#source-message-framing-protocol). Here's an example of an input message, written as a Python string:

```
"\x00\x00\x00\x4cMy solitude is cheered by that elegant hope."
```

`\x00\x00\x00\x2c` -- four bytes representing the number of bytes in the payload

`My solitude is cheered by that elegant hope.` -- the payload

### Output

The messages are strings terminated with a newline, with the form `WORD => COUNT` where `WORD` is the word and `COUNT` is the number of times that word has been seen. Each incoming message may generate zero or more output messages, one for each word in the input.

### Processing

The `Decoder`'s `Decode(...)` method turns the input message into a string. That string is then passed to `Split`'s `Compute(...)` method, which breaks the string into individual words and returns a list containing these words. Each item in the list is sent as a separate message to the state partition for that word, along with the `CountWords` `Compute(...)` method, which updates the existing state with a new count for the word and returns a `WordCount` object. The `WordCount` object is then sent to the `Encoder`'s `Encode(...)` method where it is turned into an output message as described above.

## Building Word Count

You'll need to have the GNU `realpath` utility installed. If you are on MacOS, install GNU coreutils:

```bash
brew install coreutils
```

On debian based systems you should be able to:

```bash
sudo apt-get install realpath
```

To build the word count binary:

```bash
export GOPATH="$(realpath .)/go:$(realpath ../../../go_api/go)"
go build -buildmode=c-archive -o lib/libwallaroo.a word_count
stable fetch
stable env ponyc -D autoscale
```

Make sure that you've built Giles sender and receiver. They are
required for the `demo_sender` and `demo_receiver` scripts.

## Running Word Count

### Shell 1


Run `nc` to listen for TCP output on `127.0.0.1` port `7002`:

```bash
nc -l 127.0.0.1 7002
```

### Shell 2

Run `word_count`.

```bash
./word_count --in 127.0.0.1:7010 --out 127.0.0.1:7002 \
  --metrics 127.0.0.1:5001 --control 127.0.0.1:6000 --data 127.0.0.1:6001 \
  --name worker-name --external 127.0.0.1:5050 --cluster-initializer \
  --ponythreads=1 --ponynoblock
```

### Shell 3

In a third shell, send some messages:

```bash
../../../giles/sender/sender --host 127.0.0.1:7010 --file count_this.txt \
  --batch-size 5 --interval 100_000_000 --messages 10000000 \
  --ponythreads=1 --ponynoblock --repeat --no-write
```

## Reading the Output

There will be a stream of output messages in the first shell (where you ran `nc`).

## Shutdown

You can shut down the cluster with this command once processing has finished:

```bash
../../../utils/cluster_shutdown/cluster_shutdown 127.0.0.1:5050
```

You can shut down Giles Sender by pressing `Ctrl-c` from its shell.

Commit message:

Add Makefiles for building Go examples
Also allows for them be used as part of CI once we merge.

examples/go/word_count/README.md, after:

# Word Count

This is an example application that receives strings of text, splits it into individual words and counts the occurrences of each word.

### Input

The inputs of the "Word Count" application are strings encoded in the [source message framing protocol](/book/core-concepts/decoders-and-encoders.md#framed-message-protocols#source-message-framing-protocol). Here's an example of an input message, written as a Python string:

```
"\x00\x00\x00\x4cMy solitude is cheered by that elegant hope."
```

`\x00\x00\x00\x2c` -- four bytes representing the number of bytes in the payload

`My solitude is cheered by that elegant hope.` -- the payload

### Output

The messages are strings terminated with a newline, with the form `WORD => COUNT` where `WORD` is the word and `COUNT` is the number of times that word has been seen. Each incoming message may generate zero or more output messages, one for each word in the input.

### Processing

The `Decoder`'s `Decode(...)` method turns the input message into a string. That string is then passed to `Split`'s `Compute(...)` method, which breaks the string into individual words and returns a list containing these words. Each item in the list is sent as a separate message to the state partition for that word, along with the `CountWords` `Compute(...)` method, which updates the existing state with a new count for the word and returns a `WordCount` object. The `WordCount` object is then sent to the `Encoder`'s `Encode(...)` method where it is turned into an output message as described above.

## Building Word Count

In the word_count directory, run `make`.

## Running Word Count

In order to run the application you will need Giles Sender and the Cluster Shutdown tool. To build them, please see the [Linux](/book/getting-started/linux-setup.md) or [Mac OS](/book/getting-started/macos-setup.md) setup instructions.

### Shell 1


Run `nc` to listen for TCP output on `127.0.0.1` port `7002`:

```bash
nc -l 127.0.0.1 7002
```

### Shell 2

Run `word_count`.

```bash
./word_count --in 127.0.0.1:7010 --out 127.0.0.1:7002 \
  --metrics 127.0.0.1:5001 --control 127.0.0.1:6000 --data 127.0.0.1:6001 \
  --name worker-name --external 127.0.0.1:5050 --cluster-initializer \
  --ponythreads=1 --ponynoblock
```

### Shell 3

In a third shell, send some messages:

```bash
../../../giles/sender/sender --host 127.0.0.1:7010 --file count_this.txt \
  --batch-size 5 --interval 100_000_000 --messages 10000000 \
  --ponythreads=1 --ponynoblock --repeat --no-write
```

## Reading the Output

There will be a stream of output messages in the first shell (where you ran `nc`).

## Shutdown

You can shut down the cluster with this command once processing has finished:

```bash
../../../utils/cluster_shutdown/cluster_shutdown 127.0.0.1:5050
```

You can shut down Giles Sender by pressing `Ctrl-c` from its shell.
