PLEASE READ THESE TERMS AND CONDITIONS CAREFULLY. BY ACCESSING THIS SITE, YOU ACKNOWLEDGE THAT YOU HAVE READ THESE TERMS OF USE, AND UNDERSTAND AND AGREE TO ABIDE BY THEM.

Disclaimer of warranties; limitation of liability; indemnity (the "Terms and Conditions")

A) No warranties. The Wallaroo API and all related components, software code, documentation, and information ("Wallaroo API and information") are provided on an “as is” and “as available” basis without any warranties of any kind, and Sendence Solutions LLC ("Sendence") expressly disclaims any and all warranties, whether express or implied, including, but not limited to, the implied warranties of merchantability, title, fitness for a particular purpose, and non-infringement. You acknowledge that Sendence does not warrant that the Wallaroo API and information will be uninterrupted, timely, secure, error-free or virus-free, nor does it make any warranty as to the results that may be obtained from use of the Wallaroo API and information. Furthermore, no information, advice or services obtained by you from Sendence or through the site or any documentation shall create any warranty not expressly stated here.

B) Limitation on liability. Your use of this website or any documentation provided by Sendence in any format is at your own risk. Under no circumstances and under no legal theory (whether in contract, tort, or otherwise) shall Sendence be liable to you or any third party for (1) any indirect, incidental, special, exemplary, consequential or punitive damages, including lost profits, lost sales or business, lost data, or (2) for any amount in the aggregate in excess of the fees actually paid by you to Sendence in the six (6) months preceding the event giving rise to your claim or (3) any matter beyond Sendence's reasonable control. Some jurisdictions do not allow the exclusion of implied warranties or limitation of liability for incidental or consequential damages, which means that some of the above limitations may not apply to you. In these jurisdictions, Sendence’s liability will be limited to the greatest extent permitted by law.

C) Indemnity. You agree to defend, hold harmless and indemnify Sendence, and its subsidiaries, affiliates, officers, agents, employees, and suppliers, from and against any third party claim arising from or in any way related to your or your users’ use of the application, Wallaroo API or information, or data, use of the Sendence or Wallaroo brand, or violation of this agreement, including any liability or expense arising from all claims, losses, damages (actual and consequential), suits, judgments, litigation costs and attorneys’ fees, of every kind and nature. In such a case, we will provide you with written notice of such claim, suit, or action.
